---
title: Introduction
slug: /
description:
  QuestDB time series database documentation. QuestDB is a fast columnar time
  series database that solves ingestion speed bottlenecks
---

import Screenshot from "@theme/Screenshot"

import CodeBlock from "@theme/CodeBlock"

QuestDB is an Apache 2.0 open source columnar database that specializes in time
series. It offers category-leading ingestion throughput and fast SQL queries
with operational simplicity. QuestDB reduces operational costs and overcomes
ingestion bottlenecks, offering greatly simplify overall ingress infrastructure.

TEST

This introduction provides a brief overview on:

- [Top QuestDB features](#features)
- [Benefits of QuestDB](#benefits)
- [QuestDB Enterprise](#questdb-enterprise)
- [Where to next?](#next-up)
- [Support](#support)

<hr />

> **Just want to build? Jump to the [quick start](/docs/quick-start/) guide.**

<hr />

## Top QuestDB features {#features}

QuestDB is applied within cutting edge use cases around the world.

Developers are most enthusiastic about the following key features:

#### Massive ingestion handling & throughput

If you are running into throughput bottlenecks using an existing storage engine
or time series database, QuestDB can help.

#### Familiar SQL analytics

No obscure domain-specific languages required. Use extended SQL.

#### High performance deduplication & out-of-order indexing

[High data cardinality](/glossary/high-cardinality/) will not lead to
performance degradation.

#### Time series SQL extensions

Fast, SIMD-optimized SQL extensions to cruise through querying and analysis.

Greatest hits include:

- [`SAMPLE BY`](/docs/reference/sql/sample-by/) summarizes data into chunks
  based on a specified time interval, from a year to a microsecond
- [`WHERE IN`](/docs/reference/sql/where/#time-range) to compress time ranges
  into concise intervals
- [`LATEST ON`](/docs/reference/sql/latest-on/) for latest values within
  multiple series within a table
- [`ASOF JOIN`](/docs/reference/sql/join/#asof-join) to associate timestamps
  between a series based on proximity; no extra indices required

## Benefits of QuestDB {#benefits}

Time series data is seen increasingly in use cases across finance, internet of
things, e-commerce, security, blockchain, and many emerging industries. As more
and more time bound data is generated by an increasing number of clients, having
high performance storage at the receiving end of your servers, devices or queues
prevents ingestion bottlenecks, simplifies code and reduces costly
infrastructure sprawl.

<Screenshot
  alt="A chart showing high-cardinality ingestion performance of InfluxDB, TimescaleDB, and QuestDB"
  src="/img/benchmark/benchmark_all_q1_2024.webp"
  width={650}
  title="Benchmark results for QuestDB 7.3.10, InfluxDB 2.7.4 and Timescale 2.14.2"
/>

With a specialized [time-series database](/glossary/time-series-database/), you
don't need to worry about out-of-order data, duplicates, exactly one semantics,
frequency of ingestion, or the many other details you will find in real-time
streaming scenarios. It's simplified, hyper-fast data ingestion with tremendous
efficiency and value.

Writing blazing-fast queries syntax and creating real-time
[Grafana](/docs/third-party-tools/grafana/) is done via familiar SQL:

```sql title="Navigate time with SQL"
SELECT timestamp, sensorName, tempC
FROM sensors LATEST ON timestamp
PARTITION BY sensorName;
```

Intrigued? The best way to see whether QuestDB is right for you is to try it
out.

## QuestDB Enterprise

QuestDB Enterprise offers everything from open source, plus additional features
for running QuestDB at larger scale or greater significance. Features within
Enterprise include high availability, role based access control, TLS on all
protocols, data compression, cold storage and priority support.

Typically, when growing to multiple instances or to mission critical
deployments, Enterprise provides an additional layer of official operational
tooling with the added benefit of world-class QuestDB support. Enterprise
increases the reliability of the already solid open source deployments, while
providing better value for compute spend vs. existing engines and methods.

For a breakdown of Enterprise features, see the
[QuestDB Enterprise](/enterprise/) page.

## Where to next? {#next-up}

You'll be inserting data and generating valuable queries in little time.

First, the [quick start](/docs/quick-start/) guide will get you running.

Choose from one of our premium ingest-only language clients:

- [C & C++](/docs/clients/ingest-c-and-cpp)
- [.NET](/docs/clients/ingest-dotnet)
- [Go](/docs/clients/ingest-go)
- [Java](/docs/clients/java_ilp)
- [Node.js](/docs/clients/ingest-node)
- [Python](/docs/clients/ingest-python)
- [Rust](/docs/clients/ingest-rust)

From there, you can learn more about what's to offer.

- [Ingestion overview](/docs/ingestion-overview/) want to see all available
  ingestion options? Checkout the overview.
- [Query & SQL Overview](/docs/reference/sql/overview/) learn how to query
  QuestDB
- [Web Console](/docs/web-console/) for quick SQL queries, charting and CSV
  upload/export functionality
- [Grafana guide](/docs/third-party-tools/grafana/) to visualize your data as
  beautiful and functional charts.
- [Capacity planning](/docs/deployment/capacity-planning/) to optimize your
  QuestDB deployment for production workloads.

## Support

We are happy to help with any question you may have.

The team loves a good performance optimization challenge!

Feel free to reach out using the following channels:

- [Raise an issue on GitHub](https://github.com/questdb/questdb/issues/new/choose)
- [Join our community forums](https://community.questdb.io/)
- [QuestDB on Stack Overflow](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/tagged/questdb)
- or email us at [hello@questdb.io](mailto:hello@questdb.io)
